It makes you a better AI user.
Okay, so another function that I use quite often is .info. It allows you to
provide, uh, to... to... to see a summary of your data frame.
such. See the data types...
the, um...
The number of entries...
columns, and what's not.
Um, for numeric data, you can use Describe. It's going to provide...
Um, to output the summary statistics.
Counts means standard deviation, minimum, the quartiles.
the maximum number... the maximum value.
Okay- And this is pretty important to value counts.
So let's... let's just see this in action.
So, let's say you're working with original data. In this case, the ordinal data is expensive or not.
Right- And you want to find out
How many of those rows are expensive, and how many of those rows are not expensive-
can do value count with that.
That's our new counts.
Okay- It's going to tell you...
Exactly that. How many rows-
have the expensive value true, and how many are volts.
You can also group the sales.
Uh, you can also do grouping and aggregations.
with Pandas. There's a similar to...
um, pivot table.
If you ever use... if you've ever used this in Excel.
like, in this case, um, you can group
by the city, and then...
Um,
the sum of all of those data, in this case,
Um, uh, the sum of the sales data.
You can also use other aggregation methods.
sum, and mean of sales, for example.
Like, in our example here...
Um, let's see what we can do...
Okay, what's the syntax again-
Let's see, um...
Hmm.
Okay, um, I...
I can... I can do, like, a grouping...
a year, and, um, get a... get a...
an average of... of...
of each of... each of those years.
Um...
And here's the thing, it's actually a good... a very good example.
So, um, as I mentioned earlier, I don't like to memorize things.
Even... even now, I don't remember how I can group
the dates, right- And...
I think the dates are even in the wrong data format, because it's... because we just imported
It's imported the dates from the CSV file.
So let's check this out with info.
So notice here. This is... this is still an object, right- We want... we want it to be a date-time object instead, so we can group
Group it by the years.
Um, I'll, uh, in this case, I'm trying my best, um,
if I remember the syntax correctly, I will be wrong here.
8 times. Okay, this is gonna be wrong, because this is a wrong syntax.
But, still, I can use...
In this case, Udacity's AI, and this is a, um...
a good way to...
To show you, uh, what this can do, and actually show myself, because I've never used it.
I use this, um, this AI agent.
Um, fix this code.
Let's see if it even understands...
what we wanted to do. Oh, okay. Yes.
So the first thing is to set the date as a date time.
If I do info again, it converts to date time.
and I want to group.
by gigs.
And, um...
I want to get the mean.
of the, um, close price.
by here.
So, this is the code.
that I need.
Okay...
The irony here is I'm definitely not gonna pass any programming interview very soon.
Okay,
But yeah, so Group By...
DT here...
uh, aggregate... then aggregates with a...
close, um, close column.
And get the mean of each year.
Okay- And I've shown you, like, the whole process of how I will do it.
With the help of the agent that is provided by Udacity. So this is very useful.
Okay. All right, so here's what I want you to do.
Um, and I'm gonna give you, um...
10 minutes to...
To open up, um, this workspace.
Okay- And, um...
try running this exercise.